Protocol
────────
1. Pour 30–100 ml of dialysis buffer, usually 
   double-distilled water or 1X TE (10 mM Tris-HCl, 1 
   mM EDTA, pH 8.0), into a petri plate or beaker.

2. Float a 25 mm diameter, Type-VS Millipore membrane 
   (MF type, VS filter, mean pore size = 0.025 μm, 
   Millipore, Inc. #VSWP 02500) shiny side up on the 
   dialysis buffer. Allow the floating filter to wet 
   completely (~5 minutes) before proceeding. Make 
   sure there are no air bubbles trapped under the 
   filter.

3. Pipette a few μl of the DNA droplet carefully onto 
   the center of the filter.  If the sample has too 
   much phenol or chloroform, the drop will not 
   remain in the center of the membrane and the 
   dialysis should be discontinued until the organics 
   are further removed. In most cases, this is 
   performed by alcohol precipitation of the sample. 
   If the test sample remains in the center of the 
   membrane, pipette the remainder (5-100 μL) onto 
   the membrane.

4. Cover the petri plate or beaker and dialyze for 1 
   to 4 hours. Do not allow the sample to flip or 
   become covered with dialysis buffer.

5. Carefully retrieve the DNA droplet with a 
   micro-pipette and place in a microcentrifuge tube. 
   Rinse the spot on the membrane with 50 μl of 1X TE 
   (10 mM Tris-HCl, 1 mM EDTA, pH 8.0) and add to the 
   microcentrifuge tube.

6. Estimate the concentration of the DNA product 
   using agarose gel electrophoresis or a 
   spectrophotometer.

Notes
─────
1. Step 4 may be tricky for those with shaky hands or 
   poor handeye coordination.  The filter has a 
   tendency to move briskly around the surface as you 
   touch it with the pipette tip. Practice with 
   buffer droplets to master the technique before 
   using a valuable sample.

2. Dialysis against double-distilled water is also 
   recommended, especially if proceeding to another 
   manipulation where EDTA might be a problem.

3. Steps 2 to 4 can be repeated with fresh buffer or 
   for longer times if additional dialysis is 
   required.

Reference
─────────
1. Silhavy, T., Berman, M. and Enquist, L. 
   Experiments with Gene Fusions, Cold Spring Harbor, 
   N.Y. Press (1984).

vim: tw=53
