1. Add the following to your sample in the order they 
   appear:

    - 1/10 volume of 3M sodium acetate, pH 5.2 or 1/2 
      volume of 5M ammonium acetate

    - 2-3 volumes of 100% ethanol
      
2. Mix and freeze overnight in -20. This step some 
say is unnecessary but others swear by it. If you are 
in a rush you can also put it in the -80 for ten 
minutes to a few hours. Dry ice for 10-15 minutes 
also works.--Heather
    
    - In general, the time you need to incubate in 
      the freezer depends on how much nucleic acid 
      you have, how big it is and the volume it is 
      in. My general protocol is to freeze for 20 min 
      to 1 hr at -80 ˚C. This seems to work well for 
      most things, but you may want to freeze longer 
      if you have only a small concentration of 
      nucleic acid or if it is small in size(<15 
      nucleotides).--Kathleen

    - If you are in a hurry, you can also dip you epi 
      shortly into liquid nitrogen. If you added 
      enough ethanol, the mix won't freeze. Careful 
      with isopropanol - it freezes more quickly. 
      This works well for me and saves me a lengthy 
      incubation in the fridge. --Jasu 
      
3. Spin at full speed in a standard microcentrifuge 
   at 4 degrees for 30 minutes.  Make sure to mark 
   the outermost edge of the tube so you can find the 
   pellet easily (or just put the hinge portion of 
   the tube to the outside). It is clear and usually 
   looks like a little smudge on the tube.

4. Decant (or carefully pipet off) the supernatant.

5. Dry the pellet. For this you can air dry (tubes 
   open, ~15 min) or dry in a speedvac. DNA and RNA 
   (if you don't have RNases in your sample) are 
   typically hearty enough for you to air dry at 37 
   ˚C, if desired.

   - Overdrying can make DNA hard to re-dissolve. 
     Especially for longer DNA, I avoid vacuum drying 
     and airdry only briefly before re-dissolving. 
     --Jasu 

6. Add your desired quantity of water. Vortex and 
   spin down to resuspend.

   - Beware of using water unless you are sure of 
     what you are getting in to.  The "pH" of water 
     can vary widely (I've seen from pH 5 to pH 8.5), 
     and depurination of DNA at low pH or degradation 
     of RNA at high pH are possibilities. Water also 
     typically contains trace metals, which can 
     accelerate these reactions.
     
     I typically recommend resuspension in TE (10 mM 
     Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 1 mM EDTA). This makes sure 
     your nucleic acid is at a neutral pH and the 
     EDTA will chelate any trace metals. Since they 
     are in such small amounts, neither the buffer 
     nor the EDTA will affect most downstream 
     reactions.--Kathleen 

vim: tw=53
